New PWA install and uninstall page. (#25729)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/progressive_web_apps/installing/index.md

### Installing PWAs

The UI for installing a PWA from the web varies from one browser to another, and from one platform to another.

As mentioned above, "Add to homes screen" installs PWAs on device/OS combinations that provide that user interface.

For example, a browser might include an "Install" icon in the URL bar when the user navigates to the page:

![PWA install prompt in URL bar](pwa-install.png)

When the user selects the icon, the browser displays a prompt asking if they want to install the PWA, and if they accept, the PWA is installed.

![PWA installation confirmation prompt](installconfirm.jpg)

Once installed, the PWA will behave like other applications that are installed on the OS. For example, on MacOS, the icon will appear in the doc, with the same "Keep in dock" options as other applications:

![PWA icon in the doc on MacOS](dock.jpg)

On most desktop browsers, the install prompt is in the URL bar. On mobile, the install prompt is generally found in the pop menu of browser options. No matter the browser or OS, the installation needs to be confirmed.

> ![PWA installation on Chrome for Android, with confirmation, home screen icon, and offline experience.](android_pwa.jpg)

Author: ```suggestion
![PWA installation on Chrome for Android, with confirmation, home screen icon, and offline experience.](android_pwa.jpg)

Once installed, clicking on the application icon opens the PWA, even when the user is offline, just as happens with other installed applications on the device.
```

---

> title: Installing and uninstalling bookmarks and PWAs

Author: ```suggestion
title: Installing and uninstalling web apps
```

This guide covers how to install and uninstall PWAs. A separate [guide on making PWAs installable](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/guides/making_pwas_installable) covers how to make web apps installable.

We'll first cover the precursors — saving links to websites.

### Bookmarking websites

All browsers have add-to-favorites bookmark functionality. A bookmark, or favorite, is a clickable shortcut for a web page. Bookmarks enable quick access to websites without the user having to enter a URL or otherwise search for content. Bookmarking is especially useful for long URLs and accessing frequently visited content that is not the site's homepage.

All browsers enable users to view and manage their bookmarks, including renaming and deleting favorites. By default, the bookmark's display includes the text content of the bookmarked page's {{HTMLElement("title")}} element along with an icon consisting of the site's [favicon](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Favicon).

Browsers enable saving, editing, moving, deleting, and otherwise managing bookmarks. The UI for bookmark management menus differ by browser.

### Add to home screen

> Smartphones, starting with the iPhone in 2007, added "save to home screen" functionality. For regular (non-PWA) websites feature is similar to bookmarks, but instead of adding the favicon and title of the page to the bookmarks menu — a browser feature — favoriting in this manner [adds an icon](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/The_head_metadata_in_HTML#adding_custom_icons_to_your_site) to the OS's home screen. Adding a non-PWA site to the home screen does not install the website on the device. Rather, it adds the developer-defined icon to the home screen, that, when clicked, opens the bookmarked link in the default browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smartphones, starting with the iPhone in 2007, added "save to home screen" functionality. For regular (non-PWA) websites, this feature is similar to bookmarks, but instead of adding the favicon and title of the page to the bookmarks menu — a browser feature — favoriting in this manner [adds an icon](/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/The_head_metadata_in_HTML#adding_custom_icons_to_your_site) to the OS's home screen. Adding a non-PWA site to the home screen does not install the website on the device. Rather, it adds the developer-defined icon to the home screen, that, when clicked, opens the bookmarked link in the default browser.
```

![iPhone add to home screen, install prompt, icon, and delete functionality.](iphone_pwa.jpg)

Deleting the icon from the home screen removes the bookmark.

If the site being added to the home screen is a PWA, the PWA will be installed on the device.

## Installing and uninstalling PWAs

While installing a PWA only takes a couple of clicks, depending on the web application features, the result of installing a PWA usually goes well beyond creating a link to a page on the Internet; installing a PWA actually installs the web application on the user's device.

> Depending on the PWA, device, and features of the operating system and browser, installing a PWA may mean installing an essentially fully featured application with operating system integration. This also means uninstalling a PWA, which also only requires a couple of clicks, does more than just removing the PWA's icon.

Reviewer: I wonder if we can give more of a clue to the readers about what a fully featured app really is. Maybe we can give examples.

```suggestion
Depending on the PWA, device, and features of the operating system and browser, installing a PWA may enable native-like features, such as giving the app its own standalone window or registering it as a file handler. This also means uninstalling a PWA, which also only requires a couple of clicks, does more than just removing the PWA's icon.
```

### Installing PWAs

The UI for installing a PWA from the web varies from one browser to another, and from one platform to another.

> As mentioned above, "Add to homes screen" installs PWAs on device/OS combinations that provide that user interface.

Reviewer: In the microsoft writing guidelines, we try to avoid words such as above or below, as they may not be useful to all users. How about "as mentioned earlier".

Also on this line, I'm not sure we should use the "add to home screen" term here. While this is how PWA got started originally, and while this is how iPhone still calls it, if we want to be inclusive of all platforms, we should just say "install", which is the more general term.

For example, a browser might include an "Install" icon in the URL bar when the user navigates to the page:

![PWA install prompt in URL bar](pwa-install.png)

When the user selects the icon, the browser displays a prompt asking if they want to install the PWA, and if they accept, the PWA is installed.

![PWA installation confirmation prompt](installconfirm.jpg)

Once installed, the PWA will behave like other applications that are installed on the OS. For example, on MacOS, the icon will appear in the doc, with the same "Keep in dock" options as other applications:

![PWA icon in the doc on MacOS](dock.jpg)

On most desktop browsers, the install prompt is in the URL bar. On mobile, the install prompt is generally found in the menu of browser options. No matter the browser or OS, the installation needs to be confirmed.

![PWA installation on Chrome for Android, with confirmation, home screen icon, and offline experience.](android_pwa.jpg)

> Once installed, clicking on the application icon opens the PWA, even when the user is offline, just as happens with other installed applications on the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, the PWA behaves just like other installed applications: clicking on the application icon opens the PWA, even when the user is offline.
```

Installation is supported on all modern desktop and mobile devices. Whether the PWA can be installed by the browser on the operating system differs by browser/operating system combination. Most browsers support installing PWAs on all operating systems—Chrome OS, MacOS, Windows, Android, Linux, etc.—directly or when an extension is installed.

Firefox requires a [PWA extension](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/pwas-for-firefox/).

> Apple is unique when it comes to PWAs: PWAs can be installed on macOS from any browser **except** Safari. The opposite is true for iOS, where PWAs can **only** be installed in Safari.

Reviewer: This might need a bit of rephrasing.

On macOS, I know that Chrome and Edge let you install PWAs, and probably other chromium-based browsers, but not 100% certain. We might need to check if Opera, or Brave do offer the option. Also, Yandex browser does something special with PWAs I think, where it puts them in a browser sidebar I think. The Arc browser also has something special.
Anyway, my point is that this is very browser-specific and bound to change often. Not sure how to get that point across. 

On iOS, the funny thing is that this is just about to change. Apple very recently allowed third-party browsers to also install PWAs on their own. Now, browsers have not yet taken advantage of this, but it won't be long before they do.

> When an installed PWA is launched, it may then manifest as in a chromeless view (without the full browser chrome) but it nevertheless is executing effectively as a tab within the browser. The application will be found where the OS saves other applications, within a folder specific to the browser.

Reviewer: My understanding of the word chrome is that we've failed making it something that the broad web developer ecosystem knows about, and it's still mainly understood as Google Chrome.
So my point of view is that it's just better to use "the browser UI" instead.

```suggestion
When an installed PWA is launched, it can be displayed in its own standalone window (without the full browser UI) but it still effectively runs in a browser window, even if the usual browser UI elements, such as the address bar or back button, aren't visible. The application will be found where the OS saves other applications, within a folder specific to the browser.
```

> The browser used to install the PWA will know the PWA is installed, but other browsers will not have access to the installed status. For example, if you install a PWA using MS Edge, Edge will prompt you to open the PWA when you visit the site while Chrome will continue to prompt you to install the application. If you install the PWA using Chrome as well, you will have two copies of the PWA: one instance in "Chrome Apps" and a separate instance in "Edge Apps". Even if both are open, data is not shared between instances installed from different browsers.

Reviewer: Might need to rephrase or explain the "Chrome Apps" and "Edge Apps" terms. What do they correspond to? Are they special pages in the browser? Are they folders on my computer? Readers are likely not to know this.

Also, how about prefacing this paragraph with something a bit higher level to help readers understand:
"PWAs installed by a browser remain specific to this browser. This means that the browser that was used to install a PWA is the one used to run that PWA. It also means that you can install the same PWA from a different browser and that the two apps will behave as two different instances and will not share any data".

Sorry this is more of a rewrite than a preface. But I'm not entirely sure this paragraph will be easy to understand.

### Uninstalling

> When you tap the web app's icon on the home screen, it opens up in the browser environment that installed the PWA, generally without the browser's UI around it, though that depends on the way the developer configured the web app manifest. Similarly, the method used to uninstall the PWA depends on the browser that was used to install it.

Reviewer: Link "web app manifest" to the corresponding page on MDN.

> On many mobile operating systems, PWAs appear in the "Add or remove programs" control panel. Uninstalling a PWA is accomplished in the same way as uninstalling other applications.

Reviewer: > "Add or remove programs" control panel

That's what it's called on Windows. Are you sure this is also the case on many mobile OSs?
On iOS for example, you need to long-tap the icon to delete the app.

> In most desktop operating systems, To uninstall a PWA, open the PWA. In the top right corner of the opened app, there will be an icon that must be expanded to see more tools. Depending on the browser used to install the PWA, there will either be a link to uninstall the PWA, or a settings link that opens a browser settings page with an uninstall link. Either click on the `Uninstall <app name>` in the drop-down menu, if there, or navigate to the app settings in a browser tab and click uninstall.

Reviewer: We should be consistent with how we format UI strings. In this paragraph you've used backticks around `Uninstall <app name>`. But in the previous paragraph you've used doublquotes around "Add or remove programs".

Is there an agreed-upon formatting convention on MDN? Probably not because MDN is 80% reference docs, and even in the other 20% there probably isn't a lot of user docs.

On learn.microsoft.com, we use bold for all UI strings. For example: "To open a new tab click **New tab**, and to close a tab click **Close tab**".

Author: good catch. I used `<` and `>`, so used ticks. They should be quoted. I don't like the look of those in non-monospace, so changed the reference.

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/")}}

This guide covers how users can install and uninstall PWAs on their devices. If you want to learn about making a web app installable as a PWA, see [Making PWAs installable](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/guides/making_pwas_installable) instead.

> ## History of web app installation 

Author: ```suggestion
## History of web app installation
```
